(upbeat music)
All right, I wanna encourage you
to try do this one yourself, take the currency conversion
project that we did and duplicate it
and try to convert it to modules.
Welcome back!
Let's (chuckle) duplicate the currency conversion once.
So, duplicate.
We'll call that 78 - Currency Converter Modules Refactor.
Open that up and I'm gonna get rid of the finished version
just put it into money js.
Delete that.
And we'll open up our index.js
and we wanna convert this to a module to type equals module.
So now, money.js is going to be our entry point.
And let's take a look here.
So we got a bunch of selecting.
We've got an end point, we have ratesByBase,
which is needed to store the data.
Then we've got our currencies.
Then we've got our generateOptions function,
we've got our fetchRates, which needs the endpoint,
we got a convert formatCurrency.
So we've got one handler here.
We've got format currency, which is library function,
we've got convert, that's a library function.
fetchRates, that's a library.
A library is like, this is core functionality
to our application.
And then we've got generateOptions.
That could either be library or maybe called a helper
or a util, and then we've got some data of the currencies.
So let's goin', I'm not gonna do any folders for this one.
I'll show you how I would approach this
which is just flat files.
So, let's make a currencies.js.
And let's take all this and paste it in there.
This is big enough that I would give it its own file.
Export default, currencies.
Now, we need generateOptions.
I think that's util.
I'm gonna put that on util,
so make a new file called utils.js.
Take that out, paste it in here
and we'll do that as a named export.
Then, I'm gonna make a lib.js file
that's going to contain fetch rates, convert, format.
Ah, format is more of a util, I think.
So just wanna move over convert and fetchRates for now.
We'll put that in our lib.
And we will export async function fetchRates,
export convert, good.
FormatCurrency, that's a util, let's put that in utils.
We've got handle input, that's a handler,
so let's make a new file here.
We'll call it handlers.
It's an event handler, so put it in there, export that.
And then we got our generation, which we do on page load.
So initialization, and then we listen for everything.
Okay, okay.
Let's just start going one by one and see
if we wanna move this out or not.
I'm actually kind of curious how we will solve this one,
which is, because it caches and it gets updated each time.
So, I'm gonna open up my index.html in my live server.
Let's go error by error.
generateOptions is not defined.
Okay, we'll put that in utils.
So we'll simply just import it.
Currencies is not defined.
That needs to be passed to generateOptions, okay.
So, import currencies from currencies.js.
The requested modules currencies is not provided
export named currencies.
Let's go into, oh, because it's a default export,
so it doesn't need the curly brackets.
HandleInput is not defined.
I'll import handleInput from, you notice
I don't put spaces there.
That's just because I'm using Prettier
and it just puts it in there for me.
That's nothing to do with how it works.
I'll work from handlers.js.
What else have you got for me?
Here we come.
Reference error convert is not defined,
that's happening in handlers.js line two.
We're going to handlers js.
So, import.
Convert from lib.
Refactor lib, oh lib.js.
I keep forgetting to put js on the end.
That's because the bundler which I do
all of my coding in doesn't need it.
What's next?
FromInput, okay, so fromInput toSelsect, toSelect, toEl,
formatCurrency, let's get that out of the way.
Import, format currency from utils.js.
All right, all of these elements now need to be selected
and rather than pass them in, I'll put them
in their own module, I think.
So let's make a new file called elements.js.
And I believe we just need these ones.
We'll cut and paste them in here.
And one other thing people might often do
is instead of just using document.querySelector
for all of these, they will pass in an app instance,
much like we did with the gallery, like this,
and then look inside that for all of these things.
So you would have app.querySelector,
app.querySelector for each of this.
And that allows you to have multiple on the same page
just like we did with our slider and our gallery.
For this, I think it's fine.
So export those.
And fromSelect not defined.
So we import fromInput, fromSelect, toSelect and toEl.
Import those.
That comes from elements.js.
FromSelect is not defined in money.js.
Okay, oh, so we also need fromSelect
and toSelect on page load.
So we import them again, that's the beauty of modules.
If you need them in multiple files,
you can import them into multiple files.
Elements.js.
There we go, ratesByBase.
I think this is gonna be the tough one.
So endpoint and ratesByBase, they need to go into our,
they need to go into our lib.js.
So we just take this out and go into our lib js
and I'll paste them at the top.
And oh, this is actually not a hard
as I thought it would be.
I think it just works.
Shall we try it?
So CAD.
It just works, okay. (laughs)
I thought that was gonna be harder because we're updating
a variable but this, the beauty of module scope
is that inside of this module,
I can create this ratesByBase object,
and then we update it from within one of these functions.
And even though we're calling the convert from another file,
it still knows about the scope of this file
much like a scope of a closure would be.
And we can access it, no problem.
That's the beauty of, you don't have to pass it in
or anything like that, you just reach for it on there.
The only gotcha about these modules
is if you're on the server, this will be shared
by every request that comes in which may
or may not be what you want.
I certainly have oopsies on the server before
where I was storing data in here and it was being
overwritten by multiple users and if that's the case,
you have to get into assign call sessions
or scope that to each function but in our case,
and in most cases, I'd say this is absolutely fine.
So, that is how I converted it without a whole bunch
of different files, all of them seem pretty manageable.
And that's it.
Well actually, one more thing is, you might even take this
and you might put this into like a bootstrap
or an app init function.
And what do I mean by that?
Well, you might go and take all of this,
all of this happens when the page loads, this code runs.
And that is fine, but sometimes, you wanna delay
running of what happens on page load.
And if that's the case, then, what I would do
is I would just tick all of it and go into my lib.
And I make another function called init or bootstrap
or start, or something like that or go,
and then paste all that code in there.
And then we have to import the select and toSelect.
So, we'll go to the top here, import,
fromSelect, toSelect, from elements.js.
And then we go now, nothing works.
There's nothing here.
The app has not started.
And then what you could do is just like start the app.
And we just import init from the lib folder file.
And then just start it, init.
Now, we got one more error here,
generateOptions is not defined.
That is in lib js, so we go here.
Okay, and to do that, we just import it.
You see how you always had to import it
in the file that you needed?
So generateOptions from, that is from utils.
Currencies, we also need currencies.
So, actually, we can probably just take this.
Yeah, all three of these need
to just move over to our lib js.
And now, it's giving me grief.
But this one, dependency cycle detected.
Oh, I think it's whining at me because our handlers
includes, requires convert from there
and then our handleInput requires lib.
So they require each other and I guess you could end up,
the app works fine but I guess you could end up
in this situation where they require each other
forever, and then that thing spins out of control.
So, if that's the case, maybe here,
let's do one more file.
Let's call it an init.js.
And then just stick all of that
in the init js.
So, take that out, pop it in here
and we'll grab all of these and paste that at the top.
And then we'll go back to our money js
and we'll import init from init js.
There we go.
Everything is working just fine.
You could even go one step further and not run this code
and tell somebody clicks a button or even hovers over it.
So, we could just select the app.
So what does this thing have on it?
Div with a class of app.
So, document.querySelector app
and we'll say app.addEventListener.
Mouseenter and when that happens, we will run init.
And we will tell that once is true
so we don't initialize it once every time someone mouses in.
There we go.
See it looks select currency?
As soon as I mouse in, boom, that app initialize
and then it populated all those values for us.
And it looks like it still works great.
So, that's another way to do it.
You can start gettin' splittin' hairs,
I guess we don't need this as well.
You can start splittin' stuff like crazy
'cause all we've really done here is now our entry point
has almost nothing in it and we've just put it
in a separate file.
Was that okay?
Absolutely.
Some people like their entry point just to have
a very little code, you could've just certainly
just put all of this code in your money.js as well.
So, hopefully you learned a thing or two,
there, let's get into using bundlers.